---
dateCreated: 2023-11-03T21:27:24-04:00
dateModified: 2023-11-03T21:28:31-04:00
tags: []
sources: 
---

# **Why Redemptive Entrepreneurship is Meaningful**

**A Theological Reflection by Daniel Kwik**

Entrepreneurship has always fascinated me for its ability to catalyze social change, and I think it has profound theological backing. In this essay, I will reflect on what I have learned about faith and entrepreneurship and explain why it fascinates me so much. First, I will discuss the significance of creating, then I will explore the biblical narrative as a foundation for entrepreneurial work. I will end by discussing the posture that faith-driven or redemptive entrepreneurs might take.

## The act of Creation is a unique calling.

First, I think it makes sense to distinguish the particular act of entrepreneurship from other business functions. While all business activity shapes the culture of the world, entrepreneurs engage in a particular activity that most other business functions do not—the act of creation. A unique function of entrepreneurship is taking something from zero to one, of making an organization that did not exist beforehand, exist. In every other business function, we are usually extending the work of other pre-existing creations. For example, if I am a marketer, I will almost always be joining an organization to extend its influence. This is good, but it is very different from starting a new venture from conception to reality. Andy Crouch distinguishes this in his book “Culture Making”, by proposing that there are only two ways to engage with culture that are not reactive: we can either cultivate it or create it. The former is the work we do when we join an organization to extend its mission or “tend” to it to make it grow. The latter, the act of creation, is the only other option, and it is the unique call of entrepreneurs in the business world.

There is a deep connection between entrepreneurial creation and the character of God. In the opening chapter of his book “Called to Create”, Jordan Raynor introduces God as the First Entrepreneur because he created the first ‘thing’ out of nothing by creating order out of chaos. Because the pioneering ‘first mover’ of all things is God, He is thereby the source of all creativity today, and it is from this first act of creation that Christian entrepreneurs might have been inspired to do their work. To be clear, the calling of an entrepreneur is not for this fact, a ‘better’ calling than others since all work is meaningful and God uses every vocational call for good. For example, Luther describes the work of farmers as the “Masks of God”. However, while all callings are equal, it is also true that entrepreneurs possess a unique calling – a call to very closely model after the First Entrepreneur to bring order out of chaos. I think that this is such an exciting thing, and there is something about this that draws me in deeply. In my opinion, entrepreneurship is for this reason quite different from most other callings in business, and by no surprise, it also requires very different skillsets and mindsets.

## Redemptive entrepreneurs create to restore Shalom.

When modeling after the First Entrepreneur, it is important to note that God did not simply create blindly, but He created for the flourishing of his creation. After each day of creation, God explicitly stated that it was ‘good’. Entrepreneurs must similarly bear this responsibility of creating for good, and not for the self. This is a ‘responsibility’ because it is far too easy to create with destructive patterns in today’s world. But can entrepreneurs really make a difference in the grand scheme of God’s story? I believe so, and to make sense of this, I will discuss in this next section the biblical narrative of creation, fall, redemption, and restoration, and what implications this brings for entrepreneurs.

### Creation, Fall, Redemption, Restoration

In his Praxis talk, “Joining God in the Renewal of All Things”, Jon Tyson talks about the biblical narrative of creation, fall, redemption, and restoration. He explains that much of modern evangelical Christianity today operates from a ‘half-story’ of the biblical narrative, focusing only on the fall and redemption. This worldview starts from the idea that humanity is sinful and that we simply need to be saved to go to heaven. The limitation with starting from a sinful humanity and ending with the redemption of personal sin is that it sets up evangelism and personal salvation of souls as the ultimate, quintessential Christian ‘act’. Evangelism becomes the only important endeavor of work because ultimately, what we do now doesn’t matter when we die. But if this is true, how then can entrepreneurs make sense of their work with this worldview? What is the significance of modeling after the First Entrepreneur? These are questions that are difficult to answer without a fuller view of the biblical narrative. While personal salvation and the great commission are indeed essential to a biblical framework of mission, there is more to the story.

In the fuller view of the biblical narrative, we start with a good creation in the garden and end with God’s ultimate restoration of all things with the new heaven and new earth. This is significant because a good creation means that our world did not start broken. Instead, there once existed a “shalom” or wholeness that once existed but now is lost. Similarly, if we recognize that the end is Christ’s reconciliation of all things (Col 1:20), then we also recognize that shalom will ultimately be restored and that it can be looked forward to. Without ‘shalom’ framing our theology, entrepreneurs lose sight that something about this world is broken and needs to be fixed. Redemption is not merely the redeeming of souls, but it is also the redeeming of the whole creation. As Abraham Kuyper put it, Christ is reconciling “every square inch” of His creation because he is sovereign over all and all things belong to him.

### From a Garden, to a Holy City

This biblical narrative has huge implications for entrepreneurs as culture-makers. In Revelations 21, the new heaven and new earth involve a new Holy City, and “the glory and honor of the nations” will be brought into it (Rev 21:26). In fact, it will be adorned with every kind of jewel and will require the work of culture-making jewelers, builders, and architects. It is full of culture. No longer will it be a garden, but a city full of cultural possibilities. God’s mandate for humans to create culture in Genesis 1 will be fully realized. This is a big deal. God will not simply undo everything or start from scratch. This means that the ventures entrepreneurs build to shape culture today have an eternal impact. This gives compelling reasons to work to restore broken power structures, broken natural environments, and broken relationships between people. This frees redemptive entrepreneurs to boldly undo deep systemic social problems like racism or human trafficking, or just as boldly smaller broken things. For example, Ben and Laura Harrison’s Jonas Paul Eyewear is tackling big problems like childhood blindness, but they are also attacking the smaller broken reality that kids at such a young age can feel insecure and self-conscious because of glasses. Regardless of the scope of their venture, entrepreneurs placing themselves in this tension of the “already, but not yet” can work to usher in shalom through their work here on earth.

## Redemptive Entrepreneurs are Sacrificial

The next question to answer is _how_ do we go about doing this as entrepreneurs? Praxis coined the term redemptive entrepreneurship and they define it as such – creative restoration through sacrifice. We have already discussed the implications of creating and restoring, but another element that we will now explore is what posture Christian entrepreneurs should take, and how the idea of sacrifice might play a role.

While most of the world proposes an aggressive profit maximization approach to entrepreneurship, the Christian entrepreneur must see their role much broader, and their responsibility to the larger community, not just the venture's shareholders. Because of this vision of restoring a broken shalom, sacrifice for the sake of collective flourishing is something that might be a real possibility. Christ, after all, has willed his followers to sometimes sacrifice greatly for the sake of the gospel. Faith helps us see that entrepreneurs should not work for themselves in egocentricity, but should work outwards towards a common vision of human flourishing. While exploitative entrepreneurs have an “I win, you lose” mentality, redemptive entrepreneurs seek “I sacrifice, we win” opportunities, that treat being ethical as merely the baseline and push towards the ‘redemptive edge’. I think that this is a very counter-cultural posture that goes radically against the grain of a Friedman-like ideology that the role of a business is only to maximize profit for its shareholders. Having redemptive principles built into the strategic vision, operating model, and leadership intent are therefore all things that must be considered by redemptive entrepreneurs.

### Sitting in the tension of Authority & Vulnerability

Another aspect of redemptive entrepreneurship has to do with power. Andy Crouch’s Strong and Weak provides useful insight into this and makes sense of this using two terms: authority and vulnerability. He defines authority as the capacity for meaningful action and vulnerability to be the exposure to meaningful risk. Paradoxically, faith-driven entrepreneurs need to take on a posture of both authority and vulnerability as they lead their ventures. This to me resembles very closely the posture of Christ. In Paul’s hymn in Philippians 2:6-11, he describes Christ as being of the same nature as God (authority), yet choosing to empty himself and take the very nature of a servant (vulnerability). I wonder how entrepreneurs should hold this tension? I think that in some ways, the very nature of entrepreneurship forces all entrepreneurs to expose themselves to both to some degree. For instance, to start a venture, founders need to act authoritatively while exposing themselves to risk, which requires a kind of vulnerability. The real difference comes when entrepreneurs choose to intentionally take on this posture of humble authority. If they are willing to surrender their ventures to God, redemptive entrepreneurs can have the freedom to act and risk boldly, trusting that success depends on God and not themselves. It liberates them and allows them to be obedient to God even at the expense of routine or radical sacrifice.

## Conclusion

I’ve begun to see how there is a rich intersection between faith and entrepreneurship. The in-breaking of the Kingdom isn’t only in our speaking about faith at the workplace, but it can be in the actual work itself. When I attended Praxis Academy and listened to these entrepreneurs speak about money, power, and sacrifice, nothing was watered down. I remember thinking to myself that these people really ‘get it', and more than that they are actually doing it. Every story I heard was littered with hardship and difficulty and fraught with many challenges, but it still seemed ‘right’. As a high school student, my mentor brought me through Bonhoeffer’s ‘Cost of Discipleship’ and I learned about the idea of cheap and costly grace. I came to the conclusion in my reading of scripture that discipleship with Christ is difficult and suffering should come as no surprise to Christians. Redemptive entrepreneurs at Praxis certainly sounded like they understood what ‘costly grace’ was, and this was what really attracted me to their work. I hope that the Lord can give me the courage to live like this too.